Israeli Human Rights group bet Salem has
released a damning report on the
mistreatment of Palestinians held in
Israeli prisons since October the 7th
now the report found that systematic
abuse in Israeli prisons as calling them
deao torture camps some of the
violations include severe physical and
sexual violence humiliation sleep
deprivation and deliberate starvation
the number of Palestinians in Israeli
jails has now doubled to
9,623 since the war started last October
at least 60 have died in
custody Manu Schuman is a former
detainee in Israeli prison joins us now
from Toronto uh good to have you with us
Mr Schuman on the program what's your
first reaction when you hear of people
being detained by Israel and then
released back to Gaza or the occupied
West Bank in a condition that their own
families have never seen them in like
that
before um first of all um
that they were released and they are
still alive because like you said in
your report earlier with regards to
thees that have been captured from Gaza
a lot of them have come back in body
bags to their families and they've come
back decomposed and um I've been
detained in 2009 uh at that time um
things were a little bit um uh less I
think when it comes to the severity of
the circumstances of the prisoners uh at
that time I was taken into
Administration ative custody I was in
interrogated in bet and detained um in
an in a prison in asalan and also
suffered solitary confinement you have
to understand that these people have no
rights we had no rights I wasn't able to
see a lawyer until many months ahead I
wasn't able to see my family I was told
that um I have a secret case and a file
um that has full that is full of
information about all
misdeeds that I have done and that they
cannot disclose to me any of it and that
they will continually interrogate us
until we let them know everything that
they need to know about what is
happening we suffered from sleep sleep
deprivation we would for example sleep
in a room with lights above us and we
would they would continually come to our
room and ensure that we stay awake no
sleep the quality of the food is
extremely bad very low in quantity
sometimes the food is not enough for
everyone there is no access to light we
continuously get searched unfortunately
we also sometimes ask to be stripped
onto our to become naked in front of the
in front of the prisoners can I just
jump in there Mr sh can you just can I
just jump in there can I just jump in
there and just ask you how many people
to a cell uh and the sanitary conditions
as
well so in when during normal times we
would be between 6 to 9 depending on the
number of bunk beds
but whenever there is um some kind of
emergency that happens in the West Bank
or razza they would actually um punish
the the the people in the cells and they
would actually put 14 to 16 of us in one
cell room so people would have to sleep
on the floor and um people would also
have to share the less food amongst each
other in addition to sharing one
bathroom sometimes the bathroom would
just be a mere um Hall in the middle of
of of of the cell where people would U
would be able to do what they need to do
um uh you have to understand that
there's no medical treatment I remember
being sent to a doctor once after being
in severe pain and every time the doctor
would say there's nothing wrong with you
and then they would take you back in
addition to that there is very severe
psychological um mistreatment and
psychological um damage that happens to
us uh
uh in addition to continuous cuffing you
know the cuffing would stay in your
hands during especially during the
interrogation they would cuff your feet
your legs at one point during the
interrogation they would also Scare You
by putting other prisoners like you in
closets steel closets locking them up
and then starting to shake the closets
and throw them around so there's a lot
of fear tactics that they also put in
place so when you were tortured Mr schum
when you were interrogated tortured
however you would like to describe it um
how many or how long would that last are
we talking hours are we talking days and
then were you then returned to the same
prison cell or were you put somewhere
else
so it it would it would it would take
hours hours of of of of torture and
interrogation and sometimes we would be
taken back into a solitary cell
sometimes we'd be taken back into the
group
cell um some thing that I can also add
is I had it easy as well because I had a
an international foreign passport the
other detainees there they had just
Palestinian passports and they had a
much more tough time than what I went
through
um again I I strongly ask for you know
as a result of this uh be salm report
for other International agencies to come
to the prisons inside Israel and check
on the Palestinian PR
as soon as possible because I'm sure
what they're going through under this
rightwing government is unbearable
obviously very difficult for you to
recount for us but we do appreciate it
and gives our International viewers
another perspective of what's going on
uh in the region Manu Shuman thanks for
joining us from Toronto thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from ALG